{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\vieww13200\viewh13600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 This software runs on the Macintosh Leopard (Mac OS 10.5) and Snow Leopard (Mac OS 10.6) operating systems.\
\
Copyright \'a92009 Dan Romik\
You may distribute it freely as long as you include this file "About ASM Simulator" in an unmodified form.\
\
\
ASM Simulator
\b0  is a program for visualizing and experimenting with alternating sign matrices (ASM's) and some related objects: monotone triangles, square ice configurations, and domino tilings of the Aztec diamond.\
\
Currently some of the things you can do with 
\b ASM Simulator
\b0  are:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'95 Create an ASM of small order and play with the different ways of visualizing it\
\'95 See the relation between ASM's and domino tilings of the Aztec diamond (actually domino tilings correspond to compatible pairs of ASM's, so here you see just a one-to-many mapping between the tiling and the larger matrix of the pair of compatible ASM's)\
\'95 Generate a uniformly random domino tiling of the Aztec diamond and observe the corresponding random ASM (which is not uniformly random over all ASM's, its distribution can be thought of as the "domino measure").\
\'95 Visualize the "arctic circle" limit shape and the Colomo-Pronko conjectured limit shape for uniformly random ASM's.\
\

\b References\

\b0 The mathematics behind this software is described in the following book and research publications:\
\
D. Bressoud. Proofs and Confirmations: The Story of the Alternating Sign Matrix Conjecture. Cambridge University Press, 1999.\
F. Colomo, A.G. Pronko. The limit shape of large alternating sign matrices. Preprint (2008), \ul http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2697
\i .
\i0 \ulnone \
N. Elkies, G. Kuperberg, M. Larsen, J. Propp. Alternating sign matrices and domino tilings. 
\i Journal of Algebraic Combinatorics
\i0  1 (1992), 111-132; 219-234.\
W. Jockusch, J. Propp, P. Shor. Random domino tilings and the arctic circle theorem. Preprint (1995), \ul http://arxiv.org/abs/math/9801068\ulnone .\
D.P. Robbins, H. Rumsey. Determinants and alternating sign matrices. 
\i Advances in Mathematics
\i0  62 (1986), 169-184.\
\
\
\
Some things to add in future versions, if I ever get around to it:\
\'95 The bijection with fully packed loops\
\'95 A way to generate uniformly random ASM's\
\pard\tx560\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Enjoy! If you used the software and liked it, please send me email to let me know about it. This could encourage me to write other software in the future.\
\
Dan Romik (romik@math.huji.ac.il)\
July 2009\
}